README.md, before:

# findGSE
findGSE is a tool for estimating size of (heterozygous diploid or homozygous) genomes by fitting k-mer frequencies iteratively with a skew normal distribution model, which is written in R.

To use findGSE, one needs to prepare a k-mer histo file generated with short reads, which contains two tab-separated columns. The first column gives frequencies at which k-mers occur in reads, while the second column gives counts of such distinct k-mers. That is, k is also a required information.

Given multiple fastq.gz files, here is a two-step example for counting k-mers with jellyfish (http://www.cbcb.umd.edu/software/jellyfish/):

```R
  zcat *.fastq.gz | jellyfish count /dev/fd/0 -C -o test_21mer -m 21 -t 1 -s 5G
  jellyfish histo -h 3000000 -o test_21mer.histo test_21mer
```

After getting the histo file, supposing findGSE is installed, we can do the following under R environment:

```R
  library("findGSE")
  findGSE(histo="test_21mer.histo", sizek=21, outdir="hom_test_21mer.histo")
```

For more information, two toy examples about GSE for heterozygous and homozygous genomes are provided under findGSE/example/  .

Commit message:

updated readme; added results for examples

README.md, after:

# findGSE
findGSE is a tool for estimating size of (heterozygous diploid or homozygous) genomes by fitting k-mer frequencies iteratively with a skew normal distribution model, which is written in R.

To use findGSE, one needs to prepare a k-mer histo file generated with short reads, which contains two tab-separated columns. The first column gives frequencies at which k-mers occur in reads, while the second column gives counts of such distinct k-mers. That is, k is also a required information.

Given multiple fastq.gz files, here is a two-step example for counting k-mers with jellyfish (http://www.cbcb.umd.edu/software/jellyfish/):

```R
  zcat *.fastq.gz | jellyfish count /dev/fd/0 -C -o test_21mer -m 21 -t 1 -s 5G
  jellyfish histo -h 3000000 -o test_21mer.histo test_21mer
```

After getting the .histo file, supposing findGSE is installed, we can do the following for GSE under R environment:

```R
  library("findGSE")
  findGSE(histo="test_21mer.histo", sizek=21, outdir="hom_test_21mer")
```

Results will be printed like "Genome size estimate for test_21mer.histo: 1498918 bp." For more information, one can check the .txt and .pdf file in the output dir as provided.

For more information, two toy examples about GSE for heterozygous and homozygous genomes are provided under findGSE/example/  .
